content/about.md, before:

---
title: About me
comments: false
---

My name is Oleksandr Redko. Professionally converting coffee into code since 2015.

I am a backend engineer with more than 6 years of commercial experience. [Go](http://go.dev) is my main programming language, but also proficient in Python and C++.  Worked with microservices and monoliths deployed in Cloud and on premise. Interested in [Open Source](https://github.com/alexandear/alexandear/blob/main/CONTRIBUTIONS.md), clean code, [linters](https://github.com/orgs/golangci/people?query=alexandear) and CI/CD.

## My History

I’m addicted to programming. Every day I write code, watch tech videos, or read computer articles and books. Is it passion or sickness?

This was not always so. When I was in school, I typed words from Pascal programs but didn’t understand what “while”, “for”, “else”, semicolon mean. I couldn’t solve even a simple algorithm task. At Shevchenko University, I got a poor score in Programming and the examiner told me I would never become a software developer. It bothered me.

The next year, I pivoted and started studying Computer Science at the National Technical University. I learned higher mathematics, algorithms, relational databases, design patterns, monolithic applications, systems design, all with passion and enthusiasm. In my third study-year, I fell in love with C++ and it became my main programming language for the following 4 years. Since then, I swallowed plenty of blog posts about concurrency, data structures, unit tests, CI/CD; tasted books about OOP, SOLID, clean code; visited dozens of tech conferences.

Once upon a time, I heard about Nimses. This startup develops a worldwide system that records the time of a human being’s life. Its idea fired me up that I left my C++ occupation and started working on this system. A bunch of things used in the project was new to me and I learned them from scratch: Go, microservices in the cloud, NoSQL databases, Docker.

So, writing code is neither passion nor sickness. It’s my habit that I grew during a lifetime.

Commit message:

Extend about and contact, add site icons and avatar

content/about.md, after:

---
title: Oleksandr Redko
subtitle: Professionally converting coffee into code since 2015
---

{{< img src="/img/about/photo-redko.jpg" width="400" title="Oleksandr Redko" >}}

I'm a software engineer with more than 7 years of commercial experience and technical education. [Go](../tags/go) is my main programming language, but also proficient in Python and C++.

I’m improving processes and workflows about CI/CD, code analyzing and linting.

Worked with microservices and monoliths deployed in Cloud and on premise. Interested in [Open Source](https://github.com/alexandear/alexandear/blob/main/CONTRIBUTIONS.md).

# Contact

You can [message me](https://t.me/alexandear), [email me](mailto:oleksandr.red@gmail.com?subject=Hello%20from%20alexandear.tech) or find me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexandear) if you want to get in touch.

# My History

I’m addicted to programming. Every day I write code, watch tech videos, or read computer articles and books. Is it passion or sickness?

This was not always so. When I was in school, I typed words from Pascal programs but didn’t understand what “while”, “for”, “else”, semicolon mean. I couldn’t solve even a simple algorithm task. At Shevchenko University, I got a poor score in Programming and the examiner told me I would never become a software developer. It bothered me.

The next year, I pivoted and started studying Computer Science at the National Technical University of Ukraine "Igor Sikorsky Kyiv Polytechnic Institute". I learned higher mathematics, algorithms, relational databases, design patterns, monolithic applications, systems design, all with passion and enthusiasm. In my third study-year, I fell in love with C++ and it became my main programming language for the following 4 years. Since then, I swallowed plenty of blog posts about concurrency, data structures, unit tests, CI/CD; tasted books about OOP, SOLID, clean code; visited dozens of tech conferences.

Once upon a time, I heard about Nimses. This startup develops a worldwide system that records the time of a human being’s life. Its idea fired me up that I left my C++ occupation and started working on this system. A bunch of things used in the project was new to me and I learned them from scratch: Go, microservices in the cloud, NoSQL databases, Docker.

So, writing code is neither passion nor sickness. It’s my habit that I grew during a lifetime.
